Fluid Nexus for Android
by Nick Knouf
fluidnexus at fluidnexus dot net
http://fluidnexus.net

version 0.1a

Conceptual information: http://fluidnexus.net/media/pdf/FluidNexusAndroid.pdf

Fluid Nexus is an application for mobile phones that is primarily designed to enable activists or relief workers to send messages and data amongst themselves independent of a centralized cellular network.  The idea is to provide a means of communication between people when the centralized network has been shut down, either by the government during a time of unrest, or by nature due to a massive disaster.  During such times the use of the centralized network for voice or SMS is not possible.  Yet, if we can use the fact that people still must move about the world, then we can use ideas from sneaker-nets to turn people into carriers of data.  Given enough people, we can create fluid, temporary, ad-hoc networks that pass messages one person at a time, spreading out as a contagion and eventually reaching members of the group.  This enables surreptitious communication via daily activity and relies on a fluid view of reality.  Additionally, Fluid Nexus can be used as a hyperlocal message board, loosely attached to physical locations.

= SECURITY NOTE =

This version is incomplete and lacks many security features that are currently in development.

This version stores messages in an unencrypted database on the phone.  We plan to move this to SQLCipher in the near future.  Additionally, attachments (files sent with a message) are stored unencrypted on your SD card.  We are looking into possibilities for encryption of these files, but until then, you have been warned.

Data are sent over bluetooth without any transport-layer security.  We are looking into implementing SSL/TLS for each of the network modalities.  You have been warned.

= TODO =

* Enabled adding of messages to "blacklist"
* Implement zeroconf server and client functionality
* Implement SQLCipher database encryption
* Implement SSL/TLS over network modalities
* Implement wifi ad-hoc networking
